Sorry, black voters.

You’re being replaced.

The Democrats just aren’t that into you anymore.

They’ve got a new constituency they like better, and you’re being thrown under the bus.

Blacks in Chicago are not happy about it.

“We don’t care.” “We don’t want them here.” “Send them back.”

Those were some of the reactions of black citizens from Chicago’s South Side — which went 97% for Biden — to the importation of hundreds of illegal immigrants from Mexico and Central America.

The Chicago Sun-Times was horrified, accusing them of “sounding much like an ugly ‘America First’ rally for Donald Trump.

One man even held a sign that read ‘Build the wall 2024.’ That image alone is certain to put a smug smile on the faces of many MAGA types.”

One activist, Natasha Dunn, was unfazed: “It is a slap in the face that we as citizens of the United States of America do not have the resources and support but you’re gonna bring people who are not citizens here in our community in our buildings that we pay taxes for that you took away from us?”

Public housing, already in short supply, is being diverted from black citizens to illegal immigrants.

Is it really surprising Chicago’s blacks are unhappy?

But, you know, when you’re a pushover, you get taken for granted.

And when your community goes 97% for the Democrats, you’re a pushover.

Now that they have you nailed down, they’re busy importing a new batch of future voters, and if that makes your life worse, well, tough.

If they’re not afraid of you, you get nothing.

That’s the Chicago Way.

And the Democratic Party Way.

For basically my entire lifetime, Democrats have courted the black vote and promoted black issues.

But in the last few years, that’s changed.

The Democratic Party is now run by well-off, mostly white, woke people whose interests diverge rather sharply from those of the party’s erstwhile black constituents.

Black voters want jobs.

Democrats want to import illegal-immigrant competition that will drive wages down and make those jobs harder to get.

Blacks want safe streets.

Woke ideologues (who generally live somewhere else) push de-policing initiatives that increase urban crime and disorder while killing off businesses that provide employment, something that’s happening in Chicago, New York, San Francisco and elsewhere.

These policies are less popular with the people who actually have to live with the resulting crime and urban decay than with those who promote them.

Woke white ideologues also champion “green” policies that hike gas, utility and food prices.

They don’t see these consequences as problems but as features because they want people to eat less and use less energy.

But those rising costs are a brutal burden on people barely getting by as it is.

(The other big “woke” issue, trans rights, isn’t especially popular with black voters either and not very relevant to their daily lives.)

And of course, even at the top levels of national politics, black voters could be forgiven for thinking the Democratic Party is kind of, well, racist.

Just look at the disproportionate attention paid to trumped-up “ethics” charges against black Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas.

When wealthy white woman Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg traveled at donor expense more than any other justice and her husband Marty Ginsburg’s law firm represented clients before the Supreme Court, there was no national outcry.

But when Thomas vacationed with a wealthy friend who’s had no business before the court, suddenly it became a big deal.

Why are the Democrats and the media — but I repeat myself — applying different standards to a black man and a white woman?

You may well ask.

And maybe black voters should start asking too.

At John Kass’ website, Steve Huntley writes: “An idea for a poll: Survey black Americans to see if they think racism is any way behind the three-decade-long, never-ending criticism of Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas.”

They don’t want to know the answer.

(Last year, an open letter signed by scores of eminent black intellectuals denounced the left’s racist attacks on Thomas.)

The truth is the Democratic Party is no longer the party of the working class and the poor.

It’s the party of well-off woke white people and the billionaires who fund their nonprofits and control their corporate employers.

The GOP is now the multiracial party representing the interests of working-class Americans of all extractions.

The Democrats’ nightmare is that black voters will figure that out before 2024.