On Friday’s "CNN This Morning," co-host Don Lemon dismissed the brewing controversy around Bud Light using transgender influencer Dylan Mulvaney to promote its beer as "crazy" and "ridiculous." 

"Backlash, boycotts, support for beer company Bud Light after they launched a new ad campaign featuring transgender activist and influencer Dylan Mulvaney," Lemon explained.

After playing a social media video of Mulvaney touting Bud Light cans with the influencer’s face on them, Lemon derided critics, "So the buzzword ‘woke’ was once again brought into the mix, with people posting videos of them dumping out beer, calling for a boycott." 

However, he noted, "Despite all of this, an expert tells CNN that once the social media backlash blows over, the long-term benefits of the company taking a cultural stand like this may be more impactful."

Turning to CNN business and politics correspondent Vanessa Yurkevich, Lemon remarked, "Look, I think it’s crazy, but I want you to walk this – walk us through this." 

Yurkevich admitted that "it’s been a tough two weeks for Bud Light and for Dylan Mulvaney."

The reporter then cited some of the "backlash," specifically highlighting singer Kid Rock "shooting tons of Bud Light cases" with a rifle and posting the video to social media. 

Yurkevich also pointed to reaction from popular media personalities like Howard Stern and Joe Rogan, both of whom defended Bud Light’s decision.

"This is not the first time we’ve seen cultural backlash. We have seen this with other brands. Nike also works with Dylan Mulvaney. Nike, if you remember, they had an ad with Colin Kaepernick after he started kneeling during the national anthem and what ended up happening with Nike is they ended up winning an Emmy Award for that particular commercial with Colin Kaepernick," she said. 

Yurkevich then cited marketing expert Tim Leake, who told CNN, "There have been many cases of brands growing their business as a result of taking a strong stand that resulted in some criticism, but even stronger engagement with a key audience." 

She argued that Bud Light was reaching out to "younger demographics."

Lemon was perplexed by the controversy, admitting, "I don’t understand, so what if someone who is transgender drinks Bud Light? How does that affect you?" He added, "So what does it matter? I don’t really get it." 

Yurkevich attempted to explain the perspective of critics, "I think people are upset because Bud Light has been around since the 1980s, this is a very all-American brand." 

"Mulvaney’s not an American?" Lemon asked.

Yurkevich argued Mulvaney was just having "a fun time with Bud Light, but some people taking it – taking it a little hard."

"Yeah, it’s ridiculous," Lemon dismissively concluded.