Two Tennessee men are facing charges in the alleged kidnapping and rape of an 18-year-old Kentucky student who says she was drugged before the suspects took turns sexually assaulting her, according to police.

Alleged perps Joseph Farmer, 36, and Trevor Casteel, 27, were caught with the help of license plate reader technology that pinpointed the path of a Jeep Grand Cherokee the young woman was held in as she was being raped on May 4, the Metro Nashville Police Department said in a new release.

Farmer was arrested Friday, while Casteel is still on the lam as of Tuesday evening, police told The Post.

The victim, who was visiting a friend in Nashville from Kentucky, told investigators she thought she was drugged at a Broadway bar before she spoke with the two men.

She also recalled being sexually assaulted by both Farmer and Casteel, police said.

The victim reported to police that she told the suspects “no,” “stop” and “get off” as they repeatedly raped her for about two hours, WSMV reported.

During the sickening ordeal, Farmer and Casteel also allegedly used her credit card at an ATM, police said.

Some of the purchases include an $83.22 charge at a Shell gas station and a $12 at Waffle House, the station reported.

The suspects finally allowed the victim to use her phone to arrange a place for them to drop her off where she met her friend, authorities said. 

She then returned to her college, Western Kentucky University, the station reported.

Farmer was nabbed Friday night after police crashed a drug deal involving both suspects, while Casteel fled.

Farmer was charged with aggravated rape, aggravated kidnapping, five counts of credit card fraud, theft, evading arrest and two counts of possession of drugs.

He was identified as one of the two men inside the Jeep when it left a downtown parking garage around 10:15 p.m. with the victim, police said.

Farmer claimed to detectives that the sex was consensual and denied using the victim’s credit card, WSMV reported.

Casteel is facing aggravated rape, aggravated kidnapping, five counts of credit card fraud and theft charges, police said.

He is also wanted on three other and unrelated warrants.