During the dark days of COVID, baseball was such a strange spectacle.

Recall those social distancing rules between players and umps, endless testing protocols and, of course, fanless stadiums. 

Now that COVID is basically over you would expect things to return to normal, right? 

That depends on what your definition of what normal is.

If it’s the Sisters of Perpetual Indulgence, you have a new normal in Major League Baseball thanks to the Los Angeles Dodgers. 

The Dodgers, for some reason, think inviting this Catholic-offending, trans-queer advocacy group to its annual Pride Day celebration is good for business.

Sure, there will be the usual celebrations in the mainstream media about the team’s embrace of diversity. 

But this doesn’t seem like something the average fan might get behind as baseball attendance struggles to reach pre-pandemic levels and cord-cutting eats into TV revenue. 

Baseball execs should know from firsthand experience it’s best not to go too far out on a limb on woke politics if you want to make most fans happy.

Recall what went down in 2021 when MLB moved the All-Star game out of Atlanta over the allegedly racist Georgia voter registration law. 

It backfired.

The law’s chief sponsor, then-Gov. Brian Kemp, is still the governor, elected last year over the law’s chief opponent, Stacey Abrams.

Black-voter turnout increased sharply despite such allegedly bigoted hurdles like showing a proper ID to cast a ballot. 

MLB, meanwhile, pleased no one — not black-owned businesses in Atlanta that could have used the money from having the game played in Cobb County’s Truist Park.

Certainly not average baseball fans who don’t want woke politics shoved down their throat when they’re trying to digest a hot dog and beer that can run them $20. 

Yet here we are again. 

Every year, the Dodgers hold something called “LGBTQ+ Pride Night.”

There will be an awards celebration, a DJ in center field and, people will indulge in some adult beverages from Pride-colored cups. 

As you might expect, I prefer my sports sans this stuff but if you’re going there, this seems like a pretty innocuous way to do it. 

But the woke progressive movement, like the Marxist revolutionaries before them, won’t stop until they have re-educated the masses into total conformity with their ideology.

We are light-years beyond acceptance of trans people as friends, neighbors and co-workers. 

Thuggish treatment 
Witness the thuggish treatment by trans activists of swimmer Riley Gaines for simply speaking up against trans men competing in women’s sports.

Or in our nation’s schools, where the activist-inspired proselytizing of kids to accept the fluidity of gender identity persists. 

The well-organized trans movement has been busy targeting the boardroom.

That’s why Budweiser thought it was a good idea to diss its longtime right-of-center beer-drinking customer base by having trans influencer Dylan Mulvaney promote the brand while giddily sipping a cold one in a bubble bath.

Target featured LGBTQ displays in its stores for its Pride Month campaign that oddly included children’s clothing.

I can go on and on but back to those Catholic-mocking “Sisters.”

Last year, its San Francisco chapter held an Easter celebration with men in drag escorting an Easter bunny.

There was also an Easter egg hunt for the kids and a contest for the best “Hunky Jesus” or “Foxy Mary.” 

You get the idea: Not exactly stuff that would be sanctioned by the Catholic archdioceses to celebrate the resurrection. 

LA is a city of Latinos who are overwhelmingly Catholic, which someone in the Dodgers’ marketing department conveniently ignored.

They attend baseball games and aren’t crazy about being fed trans propaganda with that expensive Dodger dog and beer. 

When word spread that the Sisters were heading for the Dodgers’ Pride celebration in June, the team got an earful and decided to un-invite the fake nuns. 

I don’t know how many trans-queer nuns are baseball fans, but I guarantee they scream even louder and threaten more than the local Catholic community because that’s what woke political activists are good at.

After the predictable backlash to the backlash, the Dodgers cowered, apologized to all offended (except its Catholic fans), and quickly re-invited the Sisters to the festivities. 

The Dodgers are co-owned by someone who is supposed to know a thing or two about business — Todd Boehly, a billionaire financier who made a lot of money from his days as a major player at investment-banking powerhouse Guggenheim Partners. 

During that abnormal 2020 COVID-marred baseball season, Boehly said, “I think we’re looking for 2022 to start to feel normal again.” 

Sorry Todd: It’s 2023, COVID is over but for most people, there’s nothing normal about you and your team’s management coddling a group of trans nuns so they can belittle the Catholic Church at a baseball game. 

It’s also got to be bad for business.

Just ask Budweiser why sales of Bud Light are getting crushed after the Mulvaney fiasco, or the knuckleheads at Target scrambling to remove the Pride-friendly children’s clothing from its stores. 

Press officials for Boehly, the Sisters and the Dodgers didn’t respond to requests for comment.