They’re entering the friend zone
New show. “Platonic.” It’s platonic friendship about a friendly relationship. Rose Byrne and Seth Rogen are executive producers. Also stars.

Rose: “It’s a man and a woman buddy comedy about my character’s platonic relationship with Seth Rogen. We’re Will and Sylvia both having parallel midlife crises. My character grew up too quickly, his didn’t grow up at all.”

To buddy up to “Platonic,” it premieres on Apple TV+ May 24.

‘Fast’ breaks
THERE is nothing like a Dame. Helen Mirren is in souped up “Fast X,” a flick set in Rome where it premiered. Mirren: “Being half-Italian myself in my dreams, it was great. Respect for women. The spirit, courage, energy, everything women have. Few filmmakers have that. Better now than years ago, but many filmmakers still can’t see us as equal.”

There was enough money to go around for Charlize Theron, Brie Larson and Rita Moreno. The film allegedly cost $350 million. In euros that’s the price of Queen Camilla’s underdrawers. Opens Friday.

Grab & go
BEACH Cafe. Suntans are coming but customers are fading. The DOJ is nabbing them one by one. This week George the Skunk Santos. Recently they went for Roger Stone and Rudy G. Owner Dave Goodside: “Why not just drive a dump truck through my front window?!”

Better he should ready a large empty table for some Biden bummers.

Spilling the Liber-tea
HIGH class Matthew Housch. The Statue of Liberty archivist:

“Once a college English history teacher, I now keep track of the statue. The background is that for our 100th birthday, France gifted it. One Republic to another, but 10 years late. October 1886 she was finally here.

“It’s green because she’s copper. Air and moisture overlay that as a patina. France’s navy ship, the Isère, collected the copper. France then built this Goddess of Liberty twice and shipped its pieces across the Atlantic in the hold of a ship. It got rebuilt in New York.

“Carrying the light, she’s holding a torch with her raised right arm. Left hand holds a tablet of law symbolized by the Declaration of Independence. A problem is she can get hit by lightning. And gold leafing around the torch causes corrosion. And water has leaked from the nose. They had to cut two little holes in her nose.”

Miss Liberty had a nose job like I did?!

“Listen, it takes months to clean her. Clean the handrails, steps, windows people look out of in the crown.”

You use Brillo?

“No. A pressure washer. Go. Visit her. She gets over 4 million visitors a year.”

Forget that she had a nose job. 

Milling about
SHOVE Camelot. Jackie O’s East Hampton childhood summer home is costalot. On the market for $55 mil.

Hunting a bargain? Please. Better you should try for Hunter’s Delaware ATM.

JUNE tune: “Oh, my darlin’ . . . oh, my darlin’ . . . oh my darlin’ Calvin Klein. You are mine and mine forever cause your name’s on my behind.”

Not only in New York, kids, not only in New York.