More than 1.5 million illegal migrants have slipped into the US since Joe Biden took office — more than three times the number recorded during the last three years of Trump’s presidency, Department of Homeland Security data shows.

A staggering 530,000 so called ‘gotaways’ — illegal immigrants known to have entered the country but not been caught — have been recorded since last October, according to US Border Patrol.

The number is set to beat 2022’s record figure of 600,000 gotaways and the 389,000 people Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas admitted had made their way into the country undetected in 2021.

Those numbers are much higher than the estimated 415,000 total gotaways DHS recorded for 2018, 2019 and 2020 while Trump was then president.

The DHS data covers the agency’s financial year, which runs from October — meaning there are still four months before the 2023 figures will be complete.

Migrants from central and south America are still making their way to the US border as they perceive Biden to be easier on immigration and granting asylum than his predecessor.

Last week saw a huge rush on ports of entry with the end of pandemic era-restriction Title 42, leaving Customs and Border Protection apprehending over 10,000 people a day from Monday to Wednesday – the highest single day totals it has ever recorded.

At the end of the week Mexican officials warned there were still over 26,000 people in border towns on the Mexican side waiting to cross into the US.

Although Biden has said he is establishing tough new rules and sending more people away from the border, Texas law enforcement sources told The Post migrants who have left their homelands and traveled to the border will likely turn to illegal entry and smugglers to make it over.

“What’s waiting on the other side of the border is an army — how long does it take for people to be waiting there before you see [migrants] getting hungry, getting desperate [and then] they decide to surge over,” he said.

Border Patrol – who recorded over 15,000 migrant apprehensions over the weekend – have warned further surges on the border could be likely.

The Biden administration’s inaction on border issues spurred Texas. Gov. Greg Abbott to send troops from the National Guard and the Texas Department of Public Safety to the border. He has also launched a “gotaway” task force.

The elite operation of state troopers included K9s and drone operators to detect, track down and apprehend people who made it past Border Patrol agents, Abbott’s office said.

“We are sending a message that we do have extra manpower working with Border Patrol,” Texas Department of Public Safety Lt. Olivarez told NewsNation. “We’ve been able to make apprehensions, where otherwise there would be no manpower there and these would have been gotaways.”

In a show of support, Abbott also said he’d reached an agreement Monday with the state of Idaho under which they will supply members of their State Police to help at the border, tweeting they will help “fill dangerous gaps created by Biden’s open border policies.”

Meanwhile, the total number of asylum applications filed with the have reached new highs since Biden took office.

According to the Department of Justice, a record set in 2019 of 547,000 applications was eclipsed last year with 700,000 new asylum applications.

That record is on course to be beaten again, if figures given for the first quarter of 2023 continue.

Asylum seekers are allowed to stay in the US and apply for a permit while waiting for their cases to be heard.

Immigration courts face huge backlogs, and migrants processed in Brownsville, Texas, last week showed The Post their court dates which were, in some cases, 10 or 12 years from now.

Asylum is only granted in around 40% of all cases, according to WRAL.