An Illinois man was sentenced to half a century in prison for killing a 17-year-old girl he lured to his home by offering to sell her Disney cups.

Arthur Jensen, 53, who was convicted of two counts of first-degree murder in March, appeared Monday in Iroquois County Circuit Court, where Judge Michael Sabol handed down the sentence, the Daily Journal reported.

He killed Adara Bunn on Aug. 5, 2019, when she showed up at his home to buy Disney cups left over from a rummage sale she and her mom had attended three days earlier.

As “a collector of Disney memorabilia, she bought some Pocahontas cups,” Assistant State Attorney Michael Quinlan told People.

“The victim came back to the Jensen residence on that Sunday wanting to talk to [Jensen’s] wife to see if she had any more memorabilia she could buy,” he said.

But the wife was out of town and Jensen, who was packing up items with a friend, told her to come back later to buy the cups.

Neighbors heard screams and called police, who rushed to the scene and encountered the savage killer, who told them outside that “there’s a girl inside and I strangled her,” WCIA reported.

Bunn’s lifeless body was discovered inside and Jensen was immediately arrested.

“This is one of the worst murder cases I have ever seen,” Quinlan told People. “This was a young girl about to enter her junior year in a couple of weeks. She was a straight-A student who was hoping to become a veterinarian.”

At the sentencing, the judge gave Jensen credit for three years he’s already served in custody — leaving him with 47 more years to spend in the slammer.

Bunn, whose nickname was Sissy, “enjoyed reading, fishing, school amongst other things. She was an all around joy to everyone around her,” according to her obituary.

The Milford Area Public School said at the time of her death that the “community is grieving after hearing of the death of one of our high school students … We are suffering as a staff, student body, and community for this loss,” WCIA reported.