The Issue: President Biden’s orders to release migrants into the country with no tracking.

People from other countries who are illegally crossing our southern border en masse are breaking the law (“Surrender,” May 12).

Does President Biden have the right to continue to allow this to take place simply because he is president of the United States? If not, when is he going to be held accountable for his willful neglect of the law?

Why does he want this to continue to happen? Is it for Democratic votes? Gotaways, drug dealers, human traffickers, gang members and criminals continue to unabatedly jump across our border by the thousands.

This is total insanity, and defies all forms of logic. It is absolutely maddening and sickening to think that we have a president who condones this reckless behavior.

He seriously needs to explain his reasoning. Now that Title 42 has ended, all hell is sure to break loose.

Ed Quinlan

New Hyde Park

There has never been a bigger threat to our sovereignty and our national security than what is now occurring on our southern border.

The worst part of this is that it has been designed and authorized by the president of the United States and the Democratic Party in complete violation of our laws and the will of our people.

Despite the damage that he has done to our nation, there is no talk of impeachment or of using the 25th Amendment, though he is obviously not fit to hold office.

Our future generations will never understand why we allowed a small group of people to destroy the greatest country on earth.

Robert DeCandia

New Hyde Park

﻿And they said we didn’t need a wall!

How could the American people be so dumb to vote for that bunch of idiots in Washington?

The country is in decline due to Democratic policies. We are paying taxes to help people who don’t belong here while our own go without. With the migrants comes the diseases they may carry, the costs to house and feed them and give them medical care — and on and on.

Brenda Hodgkiss

Atlantic Highlands, NJ

Looking at the current situation in which we’ve opened our border to virtually anyone who crosses over, with no vetting whatsoever, I’m reminded of how my mother entered this country.

It was Germany in 1934; things were getting really bad as the Nazis came to power. To emigrate to the United States, she needed a sponsor who would be financially liable for her, so that she would not rely on government handouts.

She also had to wait three years until the German quota was filled. Most of those who entered this country came in under the same protocol.

Allowing people to enter with no controls whatsoever is not only unfair to those who entered legally, but also incredibly stupid.

Bill Isler

Floral Park

How many of you remember when the law was something to be adhered to — when it counted for something?

Today, it doesn’t mean a thing. Our borders are wide open thanks to an inept, mentally challenged president, endlessly driven by the progressives who want to bring our country down.

The United States is being overrun, and nothing is being done about it.

Thank you, Joe. Thank you, Kamala. And thanks to the rest of the Democrats and progressives who are celebrating the death of our once-proud nation.

Alan Brooks

Brooklyn

The Biden/Harris border policy has been and continues to be an abysmal failure.

All that Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas has done is to process and quickly release the migrants from the border to avoid the bad media optics of overcrowding at border facilities. There’s been absolutely no enforcement of existing US law to prevent illegal entry into the Unite States.

Mayorkas’ and Biden’s pronouncements that “the border is secure” is an obvious lie.

Harold Fishman

Manhattan