Republican Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis on Monday signed legislation that bans state and federal funding for diversity, equity and inclusion programs at state colleges and universities. 

DeSantis signed the new law during a ceremony at New College of Florida in Sarasota, where earlier this year he appointed six new members to the school’s board of trustees in an effort to move the institution in a more conservative ideological direction.

“Florida has ranked number one in higher education for seven years in a row, and by signing this legislation we are ensuring that Florida’s institutions encourage diversity of thought, civil discourse, and the pursuit of truth for generations to come,” DeSantis said at the bill signing.

“Florida is taking a stand for empowering students, parents, and educators to focus on creating opportunities for our younger generations. I am happy to have worked with the legislature to get this important legislation signed, sealed, and delivered.”

According to the governor, the new law will “prevent woke ideologies from continuing to coopt our state universities and state colleges.”

“This bill says the whole experiment with DEI is coming to an end in the state of Florida. We are eliminating the DEI programs,” DeSantis said Monday, characterizing the controversial initiatives as discriminatory.

DeSantis derided DEI – which proponents argue helps diversify staff and promote inclusivity for faculty and students – as “standing for discrimination, exclusion and indoctrination, and that has no place in our public institutions.”

Ray Rodrigues, the chancellor of the State University System of Florida, praised the new law, arguing that “re-orienting our distinguished universities to missions that treat people as individuals, that reward merit and achievement, and center on recruiting excellent faculty while creating the talent pipeline necessary to fuel Florida’s future is critical to our upward trajectory.”

“If you want to do things like gender ideology, go to [the University of California] Berkeley,” DeSantis said Monday. “There’s nothing wrong with that, per se, but for us with our tax dollars, we want to focus on the classical mission of what a university is supposed to be.”

In addition to the DEI ban, DeSantis also signed legislation that prevents public universities from forcing students and faculty to provide “diversity statements” in order to be admitted or hired. 

Diversity statements usually demonstrate how an applicant’s experiences would create a more diverse and inclusive campus.