An overwhelming majority of Americans disapprove of how President Biden is handling economic and immigration issues — though most Democrats still support the 80-year-old commander-in-chief, according to a new national survey.

An Associated Press-NORC Center poll released Monday found 66% of Americans disapprove of Biden’s stewardship of the economy, including 38% of Democrats and 94% of Republicans.

Just 33% of those polled approve of the president’s economic decisions — with 61% of Democrats and 6% of Republicans in support.

Biden fared even worse on his handling of immigration, with 67% of Americans — including 46% of Democrats and 90% of Republicans — expressing disapproval.

Nevertheless, the poll also found 75% of Democrats approved of Biden’s job performance while only 5% of Republicans said the same. Among all US adults, the president received a 40% approval rating.

Biden has overseen record-breaking inflation numbers and an all-time high number of border crossings, with 2.76 million migrants entering the US through the southern border in fiscal year 2022.

Gas prices also soared to all-time highs on his watch.

Last month, the oldest-ever president launched his re-election campaign as former President Donald Trump remains the front-runner for the 2024 GOP nomination — setting up a potential rematch of the 2020 election.

Biden has rolled back a number of Trump-era immigration policies such as Remain in Mexico, a program to keep migrants out of the country before their asylum claims can be heard. Title 42, a pandemic-era policy to summarily expel migrants for the sake of public health, was rescinded by the administration on May 11.

The AP-NORC poll also found most Americans disapprove of Biden’s handling of student loans and gun policy.

More than half (55%) of US adults do not approve of Biden’s approach to student debt, including 30% of Democrats and 81% of Republicans.

But 68% of Democrats and 18% of Republicans are in support of the president’s stance on the issue.

Last July, Biden’s Education Department moved to cancel around $400 billion in student loan debt via an Iraq war-era law that forgave such loans for veterans.

The Supreme Court is weighing a legal challenge to the policy and could announce a decision as soon as next month.

Republicans in Congress have also challenged Biden’s authority to forgive the debt and introduced bills to nullify the forgiveness.

Two-thirds (67%) of those surveyed also disagree with how Biden has handled gun policy, including 48% of Democrats and 89% of Republicans.

In general, just 24% of Americans said the state of the economy is good. That includes 41% of Democrats and 7% of Republicans.

Similarly, only 11% have a great deal of confidence in banks and financial institutions — two months after the second- and third- biggest bank collapses in US history.

More than half (58%) have only some confidence in such institutions, and 31% have hardly any.

Barely one-fifth (21%) of those polled say the country is headed in the right direction, with 36% of Democrats and 7% of Republicans agreeing with that statement.

AP-NORC conducted the poll between May 11 and 15, surveying 1,680 US adults with a margin of error of plus or minus 3.4 percentage points.