Former Trump administration official Brian Hook reportedly had two vehicles stolen from his northern Virginia home last year, one of which was later used in a deadly shooting, according to a report. 

Hook, the US Special Representative for Iran under Trump, was receiving round-the-clock protection from the State Department’s Diplomatic Security Service —because of Iranian threats — at the time of the thefts, the Washington Examiner reported on Friday. 

Sources told the news outlet that the Diplomatic Security Service was unaware Hook’s cars were stolen until “significantly later the same day.” 

The report says that three weeks after the Dec. 11, 2022, larceny at Hook’s home, one of the stolen vehicles was used in a Jan. 3 shooting in Washington, DC, that injured three —including a child — and left one man dead. 

A State Department spokesperson told The Post that the department “does not discuss details of its protective operations due to operational and security concerns.” 

The spokesperson referred The Post to “the Fairfax County Police Department and the Metropolitan Police Department for further information about incidents in their jurisdictions.” 

The two law enforcement agencies and Hook did not respond to requests for comment.

In January, the Biden administration extended the use of State Department’s Diplomatic Security Service agents to protect Hook amid persistent threats against his life from Iran. 

The State Department described the threats as “serious and credible” in a notice sent to Congress. 

Former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo is receiving similar government protection due to the same kind of threats from the Iranian regime.

Last March, the Associated Press reported that the State Department was paying more than $2 million per month to provide 24-hour security to Pompeo and Hook. 

The stunning breach of security at Hook’s residence bears resemblance to the intrusion at current national security adviser Jake Sullivan’s Washington, DC, home in April. 

The Washington Post reported that an apparently “intoxicated” man walked into Sullivan’s home in the middle of the night and only left after being confronted by Sullivan. 

The intrusion went unnoticed by Sullivan’s round-the-clock Secret Service detail. 

A Secret Service spokesman told The Post earlier this month that the agency has launched an investigation into the incident.