The private Christian school where Audrey Hale slaughtered six people took legal action this week to stop the release of some records tied to the disturbing shooting, according to a legal filing.

The Covenant School and associated Covenant Presbyterian Church called on the court to intervene and “protect its interest relating” to Hale’s manifesto after lawsuits were filed seeking the release, according to a Monday court filing.

The two lawsuits against the city of Nashville seek the release of the manifesto and other information that was discovered in the aftermath of the shooting that killed three 9-year-old students and three school staffers, including the academy’s headmistress on March 27.

Local authorities have said they would release the trove of documents but delayed the disclosure once the legal challenges were brought forward.

The legal papers obtained by WSMV from The Covenant School argue records being sought could include the layout of the church’s facilities and “confidential information pertaining to Covenant Church employees.”

“Covenant Church is so situated that the disposition of this action may impair or impede its ability to protect its interests and the privacy of its employees,” the filing states.  

The plaintiff in one of the lawsuits, Clata Brewer, acting on behalf of the National Police Association, wrote in a legal reply Monday she doesn’t oppose the motion to intervene “for the limited purpose of allowing Covenant Church to claim the specific interest it alleges,” the Tennessean reported.

The newspaper reported a similar action was taken by the school last week in another legal action brought forward by a conservative radio station that is seeking the records from the FBI.

The legal wrangling comes as the overwhelming majority of the Tennessee House Republicans on Monday called on Nashville officials to release Hale’s “writings as well as relevant medical records and toxicology reports.”

Sixty-six out of the 74 GOP members signed the letter, arguing they need the information to help guide their decision on whether to support new gun laws proposed by GOP Gov. Bill Lee.

Lee called for lawmakers last month to pass a new gun control package, which would include background checks on mental health.

“The release of these records is critical to the General Assembly’s ability to construct effective solutions that can prevent future acts of violence,” part of the letter from the GOP members stated.

Law enforcement had previously said they would release Hale’s writing after the docs were reviewed and prepared for public consumption.

A hearing tied to the litigation battle is scheduled for this week.