News that the IRS ousted its entire team probing Hunter Biden simply to sideline a whistleblower, coming the same day as the Durham Report on massive Justice Department malfeasance promoting the Russiagate smear, allows for only one conclusion: Much of the federal government is now permanently weaponized to protect Democrats and undermine their enemies.

This political rot in the federal government runs deep, as Durham has tirelessly documented in his investigation of the special FBI probe of ex-prez Donald Trump’s alleged Russian collusion. 

His final, damning report reveals not only that the agency fabricated a case against Trump without ever having any actual evidence, but also actively shielded candidate Hillary Clinton despite damning evidence.

Top ranks at the FBI and Justice Department fought tooth and nail to kibosh any investigations of Hillary over both the hundreds of millions in shady donations her foundation raked in while she was Secretary of State and her casual, repeated violations of federal law around classified documents.

Then they turned around and opened the Russiagate probe on the basis of third-hand rumor, soon using the Clinton-paid Steele Dossier to fraudulently justify surveilling the Trump campaign.

This, though the entire top of the US government had been warned that the Clinton camp intended to create a bogus Trump-Russia scandal to distract from her misdoings.

It didn’t turn the election, but the Russiagate investigation continued, kneecapping the Trump presidency.

The abuse continues under President Joe Biden, and not just in the IRS’ astonishing move.

The FBI has simply refused to hand over to Congress documents alleging Biden took bribes while serving as veep, laughing off a subpoena.
Justice has managed to delay its Hunter probe for over five years.
Meanwhile, the FBI is going after parents who speak out against local schools’ policies, and had to be shamed out of a nationwide effort to treat traditionalist Catholics as potential terrorists.
Fact is, such outrages go back at least to Lois Lerner’s abuses at the IRS in the runup to the 2012 election, targeting right-leaning nonprofits for punitive investigations.

Meanwhile, all the media that waxed hysterical for years over Russiagate stand largely silent, at best treating Durham’s revelations as old news and House GOP investigations of the millions in foreign cash flowing to various members of the Biden clan as “Republican attacks on the Biden family.”

No wonder trust in the federal government and the media is at historic lows. 

Democrats from Biden on down regularly bewail the nation’s political divisions.

Yet healing those will require Dems and their allies to stop ignoring (and even rewarding) abuse of power as long it benefits their side.