You may have noticed that, as one, the liberal media decided everything was just peachy at the southern border.

The same phrases kept popping up. Such as “scenes of chaos failed to materialize.” Things were not “so bad.” “Pretty much the same.” Guess they’re all on the same Karine Jean-Pierre group text, sharing their Wordles and latest approved Biden messaging.

Guess what: It turns out if you throw open the border and let in people without checking, yes, scenes of chaos “fail to materialize” because you’re not enforcing the law anymore.

In the nights leading up to the lifting of Title 42, Border Patrol officers roamed the streets of El Paso and handed out amnesty cards.

Turn yourself in, it said, and we’ll get you some documents and on your way.

This wasn’t an isolated incident.

“After more than 11,000 migrants were caught crossing the southern border on Tuesday, the Biden administration is now preparing a memo that will direct Customs and Border Protection to begin releasing migrants into the US without court dates or the ability to track them,” a news organization reported.

Oh, was that Breitbart? The Daily Caller?

Nope, NBC News.

It’s telling that the only thing close to a clash was in Brownsville, where Texan troops set up razor wire and actually prevented people from crossing the border.

And for their trouble, they were chastised by a furious Alejandro Mayorkas, head of the Department of Homeland Security.

You aren’t supposed to stop people. The Biden administration sent 1,500 troops to the border to help with paperwork.

There are plenty of “scenes of chaos,” they’ve just been moved elsewhere — to Chicago, Washington, DC and Los Angeles.

It’s homeless vets and wedding parties getting kicked out of New York hotels to make room for the hundreds getting off buses every day.

It’s school gymnasiums and police facilities filled with cots.

It’s a mayor begging the federal government to help, and the “border czar” Kamala Harris going to a fundraiser instead.

It’s state and city budgets getting overwhelmed.

The media knows this, but they’d rather gaslight Americans instead.

“They aren’t rushing the border!” they cry. “Republicans are lying to you!”

You don’t need to rush the border when there’s no border left.

Things are “pretty much the same” after Title 42 lifted. That’s the problem.