It’s been more than a week with notable severe weather across the U.S., and Friday will be no different as the day will once again feature numerous storms, many of which will be severe.

The threat area will extend from South Dakota and Iowa down to southern Texas, according to the FOX Forecast Center.

“We have a higher potential (for severe weather) in Texas, and another higher potential out as we look at what’s going to be happening between Nebraska and Iowa,” said FOX Weather Meteorologist Britta Merwin.

A few tornadoes will be possible across the northern extent, particularly in Nebraska and Iowa, where NOAA’s Storm Prediction Center has issued a Level 3 out of 5 risk for severe weather, including the towns of Omaha, Nebraska and Sioux City, Iowa.

Due to the threat of tornadoes, the Storm Prediction Center has issued a Tornado Watch box for counties that stretch from South Dakota to Iowa and includes the city of Omaha.

The FOX Forecast Center believes atmospheric conditions could be supportive of a few supercell thunderstorms until 9 p.m. CDT.

Further south, Severe Thunderstorm Watches have been issued from northwestern Missouri through Texas until late Friday evening.

Large hail over 2 inches in diameter is the greatest threat in the area but damaging wind gusts exceeding 60 mph are possible along with the aforementioned tornado threat.

The watch boxes are in effect for Oklahoma City and Tulsa but do not include the Dallas metro. Kansas City, Missouri, is also just outside of the alerted region.

Storm tracker Adam Lucio captured video of a large tornado moving through rural areas around Spalding, Nebraska, on Friday afternoon. Video showed a wedge tornado moving on a northwestward heading through open fields and farmland in Greeley County.

The area was under a Tornado Watch when the supercell produced a tornado and triggered a warning.

The National Weather Service office in Hastings, Nebraska, encouraged anyone in the path of the observed tornado to move into a basement or an interior room on the lowest floor of a sturdy
building.

Lucio estimated the tornado was at least a quarter-mile wide and was tracked by several storm chasers.

The Tornado Warning was more than two dozen issued in the Cornhusker State on Friday.

On Saturday the severe threat will shift to south Texas with a secondary region along a warm front across Iowa.

A few severe storms are forecast to develop across parts of Iowa, including Des Moines, gradually diminishing in coverage southeastward toward the lower Ohio Valley.

Again, damaging wind gusts, large hail and a couple of tornadoes are possible across those areas, though the risk is less than Friday’s storms.