Sen. John Fetterman has been accused of showing a “lack of respect” after bringing his hoodies and gym shorts to Washington -– despite one media outlet calling it a sign the Pennsylvania Democrat is making a strong recovery from depression.

Fetterman, 53, who is still dealing with speech and auditory processing issues as a result of a stroke, was released in March from Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, where he had checked himself in for treatment.

Since returning to the Senate in mid-April, the former Pennsylvania lieutenant governor has often been seen wearing the informal duds instead of the jacket and tie required for male senators on the floor.

To circumvent that rule, the 6-foot-8 Fetterman casts votes from the doorway of the Democratic cloakroom or the side entrance to the Senate floor, according to the Associated Press.

In the same report, the wire service cited sources “close to Fetterman” who said “his relaxed, comfortable style is a sign that the senator is making a robust recovery.”

Fetterman even kept his hoodie on for a news conference on the debt ceiling last week, with four Democratic colleagues clad in suits standing alongside him.

“He’s setting a new dress code,” Vermont Sen. Peter Welch joked to the AP. “He was struggling. And now he’s a joyful person to be around.”

However, not everyone finds Fetterman’s informal style so charming.

“John Fetterman’s attire in the Senate perfectly summarizes Democrats lack of respect for Americans and our institutions,” tweeted conservative comedian Tim Young.

“He was healthy. He could perform all of his job abilities normally according to doctor’s letter during the campaign. Now he must be accommodated and allowed to wear a hoodie and gym shorts or he will fall back into crippling depression,” reacted Spectator contributing editor Stephen L. Miller. “This is how you treat a five year old by the way.”

“AP has an excuse for why Fetterman dresses like he crawled out of a dumpster and it’s a doozy,” cracked WABC radio host Bo Snerdley.

“Voting from the doorway of the Senate chamber because you won’t give up your clown outfit (shorts/hoodie) is unprofessional and an insult to PA voters!,” raged another user. “Resign NOW and let the voters select a better Senator.”

“It’s now unreasonable to expect a Senator to be able to communicate and wear a dress shirt,” still another Twitter commentator said.

“We’ve turned the Senate into a rehab facility and the press thinks that’s fine,” added a third.

Not all Republicans are unsympathetic to Fetterman. Sen. Katie Britt (R-Ala.) reportedly bonded with him over having children of a similar age and the fact that Britt’s husband, Wesley, is the same height as the Pennsylvania senator. (Both men played football in their younger days.)

Britt also visited Fetterman while he was undergoing treatment at Walter Reed.

“When I walked in that day, his energy and demeanor was totally different,” she said, adding that he’s now loud and outgoing.

Fetterman even yelled “Alabama!” at her down a hallway when he caught sight of her last week, giving her fist bumps and asking about her family.

“That shows you the difference that treatment can make. It’s just incredible to see,” Britt told the outlet.