“It’s very troubling to me,” Gayle King lamented to Page Six over the weekend.

 I was curious.

What was the thing worrying Ms. King at such a difficult time for Planet Earth?

The continued horrific slaughter of innocent Ukrainians during Vladimir Putin’s barbaric invasion of their country?

The out-of-control illegal immigration fiasco on the southern border?

Or perhaps it’s America staring into the abyss of an imminent default on its debt that could financially wreck the country’s economy?

After all, she’s an experienced CBS journalist, quite used to reporting on extremely serious issues.

But it turns out that what’s really concerning her is the world’s refusal to believe Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan Markle, when they claimed to have been in a “near catastrophic car chase” involving a “relentless pursuit, lasting over two hours” by “highly aggressive paparazzi” that “resulted in multiple near collisions involving other drivers on the road, pedestrians and NYPD officers.”

Of course, the main reason for the global mocking skepticism that greeted this statement is that very little of their outlandishly exaggerated version of events turned out to be factually accurate.

Police confirmed there was no reported near-catastrophe or multiple near collisions, and nobody was hurt or arrested.

As with so many assertions made by the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, it turns out their truth wasn’t in fact the truth.

Of course, we’ve been to this forked-tongued Sussex rodeo numerous times now.

They claimed to have been secretly married in their garden by the archbishop of Canterbury three days before their 2018 televised wedding, only for the archbishop to hurriedly deny it because it would have been illegal for him to do that.

They claimed to have been the subject of racism at the hands of members of the royal family, but never produced any evidence for it, and Harry recently, and preposterously, tried to pretend it was all media invention and they’d never meant to call the royals racist at all.

They claimed Meghan had been denied help by the palace for her alleged suicidal thoughts, but again, no evidence was ever provided for this shocking claim and tellingly, no mention of this, nor the racism allegations, appears in Harry’s tell-all book “Spare.”

And so, depressingly, on.

It’s gotten to the stage where most sensible people with even half a functional brain barely believe a word that comes out of Harry and Meghan’s whiny mouths because little of it survives even the most cursory of fact checks.

So when they breathlessly announced their supposedly terrifying near-death experience at the hands of the brutal, merciless paparazzi, and, via friends, compared it to the actual death of Harry’s mother, Diana, most of us instantly dismissed it as another load of hyperbolic old codswallop from a pair of ludicrous, victimhood-worshipping drama queens who wouldn’t know the truth if it slapped them in their rich, entitled, hypocritical faces.

Even Whoopi Goldberg openly ridiculed them on “The View,” laughing as she said: “I think people in New York know if it was possible to have car chases in New York, we’d all make it to the theater on time!”

But one person who once again resolutely refused to doubt Harry and Meghan’s word was their good friend Gayle, herself best buddies with Oprah “WHAATTTT?” Winfrey, whose failure to challenge any of Meghan and Harry’s brazen and highly damaging lies in their TV interview remains a grotesque abrogation of even basic journalistic obligations.

Far from raising a quizzical eyebrow at the absurd Sussex antics — turning a simple, 10-minute journey home into a two-hour circus — Gayle is appalled by any attempt to “minimize” how the couple “felt in that moment.”

She seethed: “I think it was a very unfortunate incident. It’s troubling to me that anybody would try to downplay what that would mean to them. That’s very troubling to me. I’m just really sorry it happened and very sorry they had to go through it. Everybody can have all of their opinions, but I always go back to, ‘How did they feel in that moment?’ ”

Hmmm.

As conservative commentator Ben Shapiro once observed, facts don’t care about feelings.

I’m not interested in what the Sussexes may “feel” in any given moment when it conflicts with cold, hard reality.

And the truth about what happened to them in New York the other night is that it was a gigantic nothing-burger that only occurred because these two attention-seeking clowns cannot help but turn everything into a stupid, pointless drama.

Which begs the question, why is Gayle King once again racing to defend them when she must know inside her hard-edged news mind that what they’re saying is all unsubstantiated nonsense?

She did the same about the racism claims, the suicidal help-denying claims, and the infamous Netflix series — insisting that toe-curling reality show was “not a reality show.”

 And she’s doing it again now about the car-chase bulls–t.

Just as she supported lying, race-baiting fraud Jussie Smollett after he hoaxed his own lynching, by saying: “I know Jussie Smollett is a really, really good guy. I just want justice to be served in this case.”

I’m sure she thinks Harry and Meghan are really, really good guys too.

But every time Gullible Gayle — soon to host a new show for CNN — unquestioningly stands behind such disingenuous claptrap, she diminishes her own credibility as a journalist.

And that’s very troubling.