Colorado Rep. Lauren Boebert has filed for a divorce from her husband of 18 years, the congresswoman announced on Tuesday.

“It is with a heavy weight on my heart that I have filed for divorce from my husband. I am grateful for our years of marriage together and for our beautiful children, all of whom deserve privacy and love as we work through this process,” Boebert said in a statement to The Post. 

Boebert, 36, and her husband, Jayson, were married in 2005 and share four children together. 

“I’ve always been faithful in my marriage, and I believe strongly in marriage, which makes this announcement that much more difficult. This is truly about irreconcilable differences,” the firebrand conservative continued.

She said she will not comment further on the divorce “out of respect for our children and will continue to work hard to represent the people of Colorado’s 3rd Congressional District.”

A divorce hearing has been scheduled for May 31 in Mesa County, court records show.

The congresswoman’s husband told the Daily Mail that he was “torn” over the divorce.

“I am torn by this, a very sad thing. A horrible moment in my life,” he told the outlet.

“I love her too much to say anything bad about her. She is the mother of my children and my partner for the last 20 years. Please just let me have some peace,” he said.

In the past, Boebert and her husband have had several run-ins with the law, including a couple of domestic incidents when they were still dating.

In February 2004, Jayson was booked on a domestic violence charge against his future wife after he “did unlawfully strike, shove or kick … and subjected her to physical contact,” a spokesman for the Garfield associate county court clerk told The Post.

Jayson Boebert ultimately served seven days in jail for the incident.

Then in May 2004, the couple got into an altercation at Jayson’s home in which Lauren scratched his face and chest and trashed his residence, according to a police report. 

She was slapped with third-degree assault, criminal mischief and underage drinking charges. 

In March, Boebert revealed that her 17-year-old son Tyler and his girlfriend were expecting a child in April. No announcement has been made about the birth.

According to Boebert’s book “My American Life,” she and Jayson met when she was 16 and working at a Burger King, and they “fell in love immediately.”

She said the pair tried to get married in Las Vegas after four months of dating but were denied because of their age.

Boebert was a teen mom and was forced to drop out of high school during her senior year when she was pregnant with Tyler.

She eventually received her GED before being elected to Congress in 2020 on a gun rights ticket.

The far-right rep squeaked out a win in her re-election last November, beating Democrat Adam Frisch by just 546 votes out of more than 327,000 cast — a margin of 0.16%.