Sen. Tim Scott is officially running for president, filing paperwork Friday to enter the 2024 race.

The move by the Senate’s only black Republican came after it surfaced that his campaign bought more than $5 million of ads in the first two primary states.

Scott (R-SC) will challenge both former President Donald Trump and former South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley for the Republican nomination, along with other declared candidates including former Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson.

Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis is expected to launch his own campaign next week, as both he and Scott have made trips to the early primary states of Iowa and New Hampshire.

Scott, 57, will join the GOP primary field with $22 million cash on hand, the most of any presidential candidate in history, according to Federal Election Commission records.

Scott said in a video announcement last month that the nation faces divisions similar to those seen during the Civil War.

“Joe Biden and the radical left have chosen a culture of grievance over greatness,” he said in the announcement for his exploratory committee.

“They’re promoting victimhood instead of personal responsibility. And they’re indoctrinating our children to believe we live in an evil country.”

He has said Americans must embrace “hope” instead of “victimhood.”

Just 7% of South Carolina Republicans support Scott’s presidential bid, according to an April Winthrop University poll, with Trump out in front with 41% support followed by DeSantis at 20% and Haley at 18%.

Former Vice President Mike Pence has yet to announce his widely expected run for the GOP nomination. He also has been visiting primary states just like Trump, DeSantis, Haley and Scott.

Longshot GOP campaigns have also begun from entrepreneur Vivek Ramaswamy, conservative radio host Larry Elder and businessmen Perry Johnson and Ryan Binkley.

Scott will make the “major announcement” about his campaign Monday at his alma mater, Charleston Southern University, in North Charleston.

Longtime aide Jennifer Casper is leading his presidential campaign.