The University of Minnesota is re-evaluating its controversial summer internship program that excludes white students, the school said Monday — after an Ivy League professor filed a discrimination complaint.

The current program is intended “to prepare students of color and Native Americans for graduate school” and comes with a $6,000 stipend for them, according to university literature.

It is also illegal, according to Cornell University securities law Professor William Jacobson, whose conservative nonprofit advocacy group, The Equal Protection Project of the Legal Insurrection Foundation, filed a complaint with the federal Department of Education’s Office for Civil Rights on Friday.

“There is an increasing trend where people think it’s OK to discriminate on the basis of race as long as the discrimination is against whites or Asians or others, and we don’t accept that,” Jacobson, 64, told The Post.

The prof said the publicly funded University of Minnesota has no legal right to implement “regressive” policies that he says are “undoing civil-rights progress” and taking the US “back to the 1940s and 1950s.”

A university rep said in a statement to The Post on Monday that it “regularly revisits the selection criteria across thousands of different grants, scholarships and other financial awards provided to our students each year” and would be “evaluating the criteria for this student support program as part of this routine process and make any appropriate updates” in light of the administrative complaint.

While the EPP is seeking a “remedy” and not damages from the university, Jacobson said he would be willing to file a lawsuit on behalf of a student who could not get into the program because of their race or ethnicity.

He noted there were other ways to attract students of color to the Office of Undergraduate Studies program, such as expanding the pool of applicants or doing community outreach to make minorities more aware of the opportunity.

“What you can’t do is set up categorical racial barriers to participation, which is what they’ve done,” he explained.

Jacobson also accused the university of playing “word games” after it denied to The Post that the internship was paid. He said a $6,000 stipend is a clear form of payment.

Since its recent inception, the EPP has taken legal action to halt a student loan forgiveness program for non-white teachers in Providence, RI, shut down a Missouri state business boot camp that excluded white males and stopped an Albany, NY, library internship that was only for blacks, Jacobson said.

“It’s frightening how pervasive this DEI [Diversity, Equity & Inclusion] discrimination is in society — it’s in almost every institution in varying degrees,” the self-described “conservative” said, while chiding district attorneys and politicians who remain mum on the issue.

“If this was a program that restricted participation to whites, there would be an absolute uproar, and we would be part of that uproar.”